doc: Instruction of enabling ACRN-DM QoS. (#3137)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/acrn-dm_QoS.rst

.. _acrn-dm_qos:

Enable QoS based on runC container
##################################

> ACRN supports Device-Model QoS based on runC container to control

Author: I found the runc github site: https://github.com/opencontainers/runc
and will update it in next release.

and dependencies together. Multiple containers can run on the same machine
and share the OS kernel with other containers, each running as
isolated processes in user space. runC, a lightweight universal container runtime,
is a command-line tool for spawning and running containers according
to the Open Container Initiative (OCI) specification.

ACRN-DM QoS architecture
************************
In ACRN-DM QoS design, we run the ACRN-DM in a runC container environment.
Every time we start a UOS, we run a runC container at first;
then launch the ACRN-DM in the started container. The resources
the ACRN-DM QoS can manage for Device-Model:

- CPU utilization
- Memory amount/limitation
- I/O bandwidth
- Network throughput

.. figure:: images/acrn-dm_qos_architecture.png
   :align: center

   ACRN-DM QoS architecture

ACRN-QoS CPU utilization example
********************************
In runC ``config.json`` we set the CPU resource as below for VM0 and VM1:

.. code-block:: none

    "cpu": {
       "shares": 1024,
       "quota": 1000000,
       "period": 500000,
       "realtimeRuntime": 950000,
       "realtimePeriod": 1000000,

>        "cpus": "2-3",

Reviewer: Are these the CPUs that are given to the VM, or the ones the `acrn-dm` will use (in the SOS)?

I'm wondering how this works because I first thought that this would indicate the `acrn-dm` could use CPU cores 2 and 3. But then I wondered what happens when we take them offline to give them to the VM?

Reviewer 2: Hi Geoffroy,
  The "cpus": "2-3" means you pin the process to the cpu 2-3, but if the cpu offline, it can not set the cpu parameter like this.

Reviewer: Our launch scripts typically take all CPUs offline, except the BSP. Is this `config.json` working as it is or does it need some tweaking in the `launch_uos.sh` script?

>        "mems": "0-7"

Reviewer: Do you know how I can get the right info for my platform? I.e. how do you check how many "memory nodes" I have on my system?

(Note: I checked the output of `lscpu` but it says that I have 1x NUMA (node(s) and CPUs 0-7 attached to that node. I don't know how to relate that to this `mems` parameter).

Reviewer 2: Hi  Geoffroy,
   If you want to see the Cgroup info you can get it in /sys/fs/cgroup/memory directory.  All the ACRN-DM QoS is based on the Linux Cgroup subsystem.

    },

In this example the CPU shares value is 1024, so the VM0 or VM1 device model

> CPU utilization is ``1024 / (1024 + 1024 +1024) = 33%``, which means

Reviewer: Where does that formula come from (esp. the total of 3x 1024 shares)?

Is there a good document that explains how `cpu.shares` work? I have searched a bit for it but I'm not yet 100% that I understand how it works.

Reviewer 2: Hi  Geoffroy,
  The cpu.shares is the linux cgroup feature.  You can get more info about it in 
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/resource_management_guide/sec-cpu

Author: Add this link into ``cpu.shares``

the maximal CPU resource for the VM0 or VM1 is 33% of the entire CPU resource.

.. figure:: images/cpu_utilization_image.png
   :align: center

   CPU utilization image

How to use ACRN-DM QoS
**********************

>  #. Add these parameters to the ``runC.json`` file:

Reviewer: Where should this file be placed? Is there a set of standard locations, or should it specifically be put in the same folder as the launch script for example?

Reviewer 2: Yes, this configuration have been set to the same place with the launch script, we we run the launch script it will be copy to the /usr/share/acrn/conf directory.

Reviewer: When you say "run the launch script", do you mean when you run `acrnctl add`?

Can  you amend the text here to indicate the `runC.json` should be placed in the working directory?

Is there any risk to run into name conflicts if you repeat these operations for a few VMs?

Author: > When you say "run the launch script", do you mean when you run `acrnctl add`?

Yes, I mean add the launch script to the `acrnctl`

> Can you amend the text here to indicate the `runC.json` should be placed in the working directory?

Sure, @Ragnarliu will indicate the full directory of runC.json.

> Is there any risk to run into name conflicts if you repeat these operations for a few VMs?

Right now the launch_uos hard code the VM name, you can get this from launch_clear function parameter.
If you want to start more VM you need to modify the launch_uos script.

    .. code-block:: none

>         # vim /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/runC.json

Reviewer: I was puzzled by the `args` section in that file - see https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor/blob/master/devicemodel/samples/nuc/runC.json#L10-L12

Why is it calling the launch script for the `apl-mrb` platform? Is that overriding the `launch_uos.sh` script we pass on to `acrnctl add` at the end of this doc?

Reviewer 2: We will add a new patch for NUC platform .

    .. code-block:: none

        "linux": {
            "resources": {
                "memory": {
                     "limit": 536870912,
                     "reservation": 536870912,
                     "swap": 536870912,
                     "kernel": -1,
                     "kernelTCP": -1,
                     "swappiness": 0,
                     "disableOOMKiller": false
                },
                "cpu": {
                    "shares": 1024,
                    "quota": 1000000,
                    "period": 500000,
                    "realtimeRuntime": 950000,
                    "realtimePeriod": 1000000,
                    "cpus": "2-3",
                    "mems": "0-7"
                },
                "devices": [
                    {
                        "allow": true,
                        "access": "rwm"
                    }
                ]
            },

    .. note:: For the configuration details you can refer to the `config.md
        <https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config.md>`_

 #. Add the UOS by ``acrnctl add`` command:

    .. code-block:: none

>         # acrnctl add launch_uos.sh -C

Reviewer: Can you describe what the `-C` argument means? I did not find it in our online documentation.

Reviewer 2: We add the "-C" parameter for the ACRN-DM QoS function.  when we add the luanch script with "-C" parameter means we will start this VM in the container .

Reviewer: Can you add this to our `acrnctl` documentation?

Reviewer 2: Hi Geoffroy,
 I will add this argument to acrnctl  documentation.

Thanks

 #. Start the UOS by ``acrnd``

    .. code-block:: none

>         # acrnd -t

Reviewer: What is this command (I couldn't find a description of the `-t` argument in our online doc)?

Could the VM be also started by `acrnctl start`?

Reviewer 2: Yes the VM can be started by acrnctl start command, the "acrnd -t" argument means start the added VM and attach to the UOS console.

Reviewer: Can you add this to our `acrnd` documentation?

Reviewer 2: Hi  Geoffroy,
  I will talk with acrn tools team about the acrnd "-t" argument.
Thanks

.. _acrn-dm_qos:

Enable QoS based on runC container
##################################

> ACRN supports Device-Model QoS based on runC container to control

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This document describes how ACRN supports Device-Model Quality of Service (QoS)
based on using runC containers to control
```

> the SOS resources (CPU, Storage, Memory, Network) by modifying the runC configuration file.

Reviewer 3: Should this be UOS instead of SOS? You talk about UOS later in this doc.

Reviewer 2: This is the SOS resources used by ACRN-dm process.

What is QoS
***********
Traditionally, Quality of Service (QoS) is the description or measurement
of the overall performance of a service, such as a `computer network
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network>`_ or a `cloud computing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_computing>`_ service,
particularly the performance is seen by the users on the network.

What is runC container
**********************
Containers are an abstraction at the application layer that packages code
and dependencies together. Multiple containers can run on the same machine
and share the OS kernel with other containers, each running as
isolated processes in user space. `runC
<https://github.com/opencontainers/runc>`_, a lightweight universal container runtime,
is a command-line tool for spawning and running containers according
to the `Open Container Initiative (OCI)
<https://www.opencontainers.org/>`_ specification.

ACRN-DM QoS architecture
************************
In ACRN-DM QoS design, we run the ACRN-DM in a runC container environment.

> Every time we start a UOS, we run a runC container at first;

Reviewer 3: Better would be:
```
Every time we start a UOS, we first start a runC container and
then launch the ACRN-DM within that container.
```

then launch the ACRN-DM in the started container. The resources
the ACRN-DM QoS can manage for Device-Model:

- CPU utilization
- Memory amount/limitation
- I/O bandwidth
- Network throughput

.. figure:: images/acrn-dm_qos_architecture.png
   :align: center

   ACRN-DM QoS architecture

ACRN-QoS CPU utilization example
********************************

> In runC ``config.json`` we set the CPU resource as below for VM0 and VM1:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In runC ``config.json`` we set the CPU resource as shown below for VM0 and VM1:
```

.. code-block:: none

    "cpu": {
       "shares": 1024,
       "quota": 1000000,
       "period": 500000,
       "realtimeRuntime": 950000,
       "realtimePeriod": 1000000,
       "cpus": "2-3",
       "mems": "0-7"
    },

> In this example the CPU shares value is 1024, so the VM0 or VM1 device model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example the ``cpu.shares`` value is 1024, so the VM0 and VM1 device model
```

CPU utilization is ``1024 / (1024 + 1024 +1024) = 33%``, which means
the maximal CPU resource for the VM0 or VM1 is 33% of the entire CPU resource.

.. figure:: images/cpu_utilization_image.png
   :align: center

   CPU utilization image

How to use ACRN-DM QoS
**********************

>  #. Add these parameters to the ``runC.json`` file:

Reviewer 3: This whole section seems to be indented by one extra space (and causes a problem in the generated output).

    .. code-block:: none

        # vim /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/runC.json

    .. code-block:: none

        "linux": {
            "resources": {
                "memory": {
                     "limit": 536870912,
                     "reservation": 536870912,
                     "swap": 536870912,
                     "kernel": -1,
                     "kernelTCP": -1,
                     "swappiness": 0,
                     "disableOOMKiller": false
                },
                "cpu": {
                    "shares": 1024,
                    "quota": 1000000,
                    "period": 500000,
                    "realtimeRuntime": 950000,
                    "realtimePeriod": 1000000,
                    "cpus": "2-3",
                    "mems": "0-7"
                },
                "devices": [
                    {
                        "allow": true,
                        "access": "rwm"
                    }
                ]
            },

>     .. note:: For the configuration details you can refer to the `config.md

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    .. note:: For configuration details, refer to the `Open Containers configuration documentation
```

>         <https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config.md>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        <https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config.md>`_.
```

then launch the ACRN-DM within that container.
The ACRN-DM QoS can manage these resources for Device-Model:

- CPU utilization
- Memory amount/limitation
- I/O bandwidth
- Network throughput

.. figure:: images/acrn-dm_qos_architecture.png
   :align: center

   ACRN-DM QoS architecture

ACRN-QoS CPU utilization example
********************************
In runC ``config.json`` we set the CPU resource as shown below for VM0 and VM1:

.. code-block:: none

    "cpu": {
       "shares": 1024,
       "quota": 1000000,
       "period": 500000,
       "realtimeRuntime": 950000,
       "realtimePeriod": 1000000,
       "cpus": "2-3",
       "mems": "0-7"
    },

In this example the `cpu.shares
<https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/resource_management_guide/sec-cpu>`_
value is 1024, so the VM0 and VM1 device model
CPU utilization is ``1024 / (1024 + 1024 + 1024) = 33%``, which means
the maximal CPU resource for the VM0 or VM1 is 33% of the entire CPU resource.

.. figure:: images/cpu_utilization_image.png
   :align: center

   CPU utilization image

How to use ACRN-DM QoS
**********************

>  #. Add these parameters to the ``runC.json`` file:

Author: I will fix this in next release.
